ADMIN DASHBOARD INTERFACE DESCRIPTION & VALIDATIONS

1. LAYOUT DESIGN (HTML Structure)
The dashboard consists of four major sections:

Header: Contains the title of the dashboard and a toggle for Dark Mode.
Navigation (Sidebar): Provides links to different sections like Home, Users, and Settings.
Main Content: Displays the welcome message and space for charts, tables, or reports.
Footer: Shows copyright information.

Validation Rule:
Each section must render properly in its respective grid position regardless of screen size.

HTML Elements & Valid Usage:
<div class="dashboard">: Acts as the main container for the admin dashboard layout. It's styled using CSS Grid.
<header>: Always contains an <h1> for dashboard title and a checkbox for theme switching.
<nav>: Must include a <ul> with <li> elements, each containing a valid hyperlink (<a>).
<main>: Holds primary content with headings.
<footer>: Always positioned at the bottom with copyright.

2. CSS GRID LAYOUT (Exp3.css)
Dashboard Grid Container (.dashboard)
display: grid;: Enables CSS Grid for layout control.
grid-template-columns: 200px auto;: Divides layout into a 200px fixed sidebar and a flexible content area.
grid-template-rows: 100px auto 50px;: Sets fixed heights for header (100px) and footer (50px) while keeping the content area flexible.
height: 100vh;: Makes the dashboard occupy the entire browser height.

3. INDIVIDUAL SECTIONS STYLING
.dashboard
Purpose: Uses CSS Grid to lay out the dashboard.
Properties:
grid-template-columns: 200px auto;: Sidebar is 200px, content takes remaining space.
grid-template-rows: 100px auto 50px;: Header height is 100px, footer is 50px.

header
Purpose: Displays the top bar with title and dark mode toggle.

Properties:
grid-column: 1 / span 2;: Makes header stretch across both columns.
background-color: var(--bg-header);: Uses CSS variable for dynamic theme.
border: Adds a light gray outline.

nav
Purpose: Sidebar containing links to other sections.
Properties:
Fixed width column with gray background (var(--bg-nav)).

main
Purpose: Main content section for dynamic dashboard data like tables, charts, etc.

Properties:
Flexible in height and width.
White background in light mode.

footer
Purpose: Footer section of the page.
Properties:
Green background same as header.
Spans both columns using grid-column: 1 / span 2.
Centered text.


4. THEME SWITCHING (DARK MODE PREPARATION)
:root
Purpose: Defines default light mode colors using CSS custom properties (variables).

Variables Defined:
--bg-header: Light green
--bg-nav: Light gray
--bg-main: White
--bg-footer: Light green
--text-color: Black

#themeToggle:checked ~ .dashboard
Purpose: When checkbox is checked, it overrides the default variables, switching the theme.

Dark Mode Variables:
--bg-header: Dark green
--bg-nav: Dimmed gray
--bg-main: light brown
--bg-footer: Dark green again

#themeToggle { display: none; }
Purpose: Hides the actual checkbox input and relies on the label for interaction.

Test Cases:
Header & footer span full width
Sidebar is fixed at 200px
Main area adjusts with screen
Dark Mode toggle works via checkbox
Checkbox is hidden, label is clickable
Theme colors switch correctly
Layout fills full screen height

Learning Outcomes:
Built layout using CSS Grid
Used semantic HTML tags
Applied themes with CSS variables
Added Dark Mode without JavaScript
Practiced state-based styling with :checked